= IChing

== DESCRIPTION:

I Ching allows you to easily cast hexagrams from _The Book of Changes_

== FEATURES:

* Utilizes the Yarrow Stalk casting method described in the appendix of _The I Ching (or Book of Changes)_ by Richard Wilhelm.
* Names and rudimentary descriptions for all generated hexagrams.
* Easily determine the nuclear trigrams of a given hexagram.
* Easily determine if a hexagram is moving, obtain the moving lines, or generate the changed hexagram.
* Render a hexagram to a string.

== TODO:

* Further tests, optimizations, beautification.

== SYNOPSIS:

Casting hexagrams is easy:

  require 'iching'

  cast = IChing::Cast.new
  cast.hexagrams.each do | hexagram |
    puts
    puts hexagram.to_s
    puts hexagram.description[:name]
    hexagram.moving_lines.each { | line | puts "Lines #{ line }" }
  end

Example output:

  -------
  -------
  --- ---
  -------
  ---x---
  --- ---
  Chien
  Lines 2
  
  -------
  -------
  --- ---
  -------
  -------
  --- ---
  Sun

Once cast, you can query a hexagram for details:

  cast = IChing::Cast.new
  hexagram = cast.hexagrams.first

  puts hexagram.to_s

    -------
    -------
    --- ---
    -------
    ---x---
    --- ---

  puts hexagram.description[:name]

    Chien
  
  puts hexagram.moving_lines

    2
  
  puts hexagram.signature.to_s

    001011

  puts hexagram.top_trigram.to_s

    -------
    -------
    --- ---

  puts hexagram.top_trigram.description[:name]

    Sun

  puts hexagram.top_trigram.signature.to_s

    001

  puts hexagram.bottom_trigram.to_s

    -------
    --- ---
    --- ---

  puts hexagram.bottom_trigram.description[:name]

    Ken

  puts hexagram.bottom_trigram.signature.to_s

    011

== FURTHER READING:

_The I Ching (or Book of Changes)_ by Richard Wilhelm

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 <b>Jon Fuller</b> (ratchetcat+github@gmail.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.